tags:: #source/book📚
dates:: 1949
people:: [[George Orwell]]

# 1949 📚 1984
George Orwell understood the power of language. In his novel *1984*, the "Big Brother" government enforces a language called "NewSpeak" that eliminates words. They get rid of "bad". They get rid of "great". Now there's just "good", "ungood", and "double-plus good". This brutal collapse of word choice imprisons our ability to express ourselves...our ability to articulate the complex thoughts and emotions we're having.

Fast forward to the today, and who would have thought we'd choose to imprison ourselves...wearing our reduced vocabularies as some sort of badge of honor,  scared that if we start using the big words we will somehow screw with our identity.

But without the *big* words in your back pocket, it just makes it easier for Big Brother to screw with you!
%% The central principle of NewSpeak is that it makes it impossible to contemplate rebellion against the state.

The people are effectively handicapped in their ability to think critically, analytically—and at times—skeptically, to the people, arguments, and ideas they encounter. %%
###### Newsletter - [[LYT Notes 1]] (deprecated)
%% #output/newsletter %%
George Orwell understood the power of language. In his novel *1984*, the totalitarian government enforces a language called "Newspeak," which has an extremely limited vocabulary. This brutal simplification of word choice actually prevents the people from being able to articulate the complex thoughts and emotions they're having. It essentially imprisons expression.

Fast forward to the 2020's, and who would have thought we'd imprison ourselves...wearing our simple vocabularies as some sort of badge of honor, and scared that using the big words will somehow screw with our identity.

Well, here's the thing, having the big words in your back pocket, having an expansive vocabulary, actually prevents the populists from screwing with you!
%%
### More
Written during the height of the Stalinist regime, and just after the Hitler regime. Both regimes of terror and violence.
%%